# Tumor-detection

Tumor detection from images to detect if the person who's MRI image is inputed has tumor or not.

Brain tumor detection/segmentation is the most challenging, as well as essential, task in many medical-image applications, because it generally involves a significant amount of data/information. There are many types of tumors (sizes and shapes). Artificial intelligence-assisted automatic/semiautomatic detection/segmentation is now playing an important role in medical diagnosis. Prior to therapies such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or brain surgery, the medical practitioners must validate the limits and the regions of the brain tumor as well as determine where specifically it lies and the exact affected locations. This chapter reviews various algorithms for brain tumor segmentation/detection and compares their Dice similarity coefficients (DSCs). Finally, an algorithm for brain tumor segmentation is proposed.

Brain tumor is the growth of abnormal cells in brain some of which may leads to cancer. The usual method to detect brain tumor is Magnetic Resonance Imaging(MRI) scans. From the MRI images information about the abnormal tissue growth in the brain is identified. In various research papers, the detection of brain tumor is done by applying Machine Learning and Deep Learning algorithms. When these algorithms are applied on the MRI images the prediction of brain tumor is done very fast and a higher accuracy helps in providing the treatment to the patients. These prediction also helps the radiologist in making quick decisions. In the proposed work, a self defined Artificial Neural Network (ANN) and Convolution Neural Network (CNN) is applied in detecting the presence of brain tumor and their performance is analyzed.
